Q : What are the elements of databases?
--> The elements of a database refer to the fundamental components that make up a database and ensure its functionality. These elements
provide structure, organization, and mechanisms for storing and manipulating data.

--> Below are the key elements:

Users table :
-------------------------------------------
    ID	Name	Age	  Email
    1	Alice	25	  alice@example.com
    2	Bob	    30	  bob@example.com
-------------------------------------------

1. Tables
Definition: The primary structure for storing data in relational databases. Data is organized into rows and columns.
Components:
    1. Rows (Records): Individual entries in a table.
    2. Columns (Fields): Attributes or properties of the data (e.g., Name, Age, Email).

2. Fields
Definition: The smallest unit of data in a table, representing a single piece of information about a record.
Example: In a table, Name, Age, and Email are fields.

3. Records
Definition: A row in a table, representing a single, complete unit of information.
Example: In the Users table, the row 1 | Alice | 25 | alice@example.com is a record.

4. Keys
Definition: Special fields used to uniquely identify records and establish relationships between tables.
Types:
    1. Primary Key: A unique identifier for a record (e.g., ID in the Users table).
    2. Foreign Key: A field that links one table to another (e.g., OrderID linking Orders to Users).

5. Indexes
Definition: Structures that improve the speed of data retrieval operations by organizing fields. (www.w3schools.com/mysql/mysql_create_index.asp)
Example: An index on the Email field in the Users table allows faster searching for users by their email.

6. Relationships
Definition: Connections between tables in a relational database.
Types:
    1. One-to-One: One record in a table is linked to one record in another table.
    2. One-to-Many: One record in a table is linked to multiple records in another table.
    3. Many-to-Many: Many records in one table are linked to many records in another table.
       Example : A Student can enroll in multiple Courses. on the other hand a Course can have multiple Students enrolled.
Example: A Users table related to an Orders table through a UserID foreign key.

7. Schemas
Definition: A schema in a database is the structural definition that defines how data is organized, what entities (tables)
exist, and how they are related to each other. It essentially serves as the "blueprint" for the database.
    1. Defines the structure of the database (tables, columns, relationships, data types).
    2. Describes constraints (such as NOT NULL, PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY and UNIQUE constraints) and how data should be stored.
    3. Does not contain actual data but rather specifies the types of data that can exist.
    4. A schema provides a way to organize database objects logically.
Key Aspects of a Schema : Tables, Columns, Relationships, Constraints, Indexes

8. Queries
Definition: A query in a database is a request to retrieve, manipulate, or modify data. Queries are used to interact with the
database by requesting specific information, updating records, or performing calculations.
Types of Queries:
    1. SELECT: Used to retrieve data from one or more tables.
    2. INSERT: Used to add new records to a table.
    3. UPDATE: Used to modify existing records in a table.
    4. DELETE: Used to remove records from a table.

9. Data
Definition: The actual information stored in the database.
Example: User data like names, email addresses, or transaction details.

10. Constraints
Definition: Rules that ensure data integrity and validity.
Types of Constraints:
    1. NOT NULL: Ensures a field cannot be empty.
    2. UNIQUE: Ensures all values in a field are unique.
    3. CHECK: Ensures a field meets specific conditions.
    4. FOREIGN KEY: Enforces referential integrity between tables.

11. Triggers
Definition: Automated procedures that execute in response to specific database events (e.g., inserting or updating a record).
Example: Automatically update an updated_at field when a record is modified.

12. Views
Definition: Virtual tables created by a query to present specific data from one or more tables.
Example: A view showing only active users:
    `CREATE VIEW ActiveUsers AS
     SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Active = TRUE;`

13. Stored Procedures
Definition: Predefined SQL statements stored in the database that can be executed as needed.
Example: A procedure to calculate user statistics:
    `CREATE PROCEDURE CalculateUserStats()
     BEGIN
       -- SQL logic here
     END;`
